In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.
Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.
Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.
Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.
If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.
A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.
On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.
Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.
A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.
A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.
Cats have supersonic hearing
Cats have supersonic hearing
A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.
The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.
A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!
The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.
In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.
The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more
Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.
Most cats adore sardines.
Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.
One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.
Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.
Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.
Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.
A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).
A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.
A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.
There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.
Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.
A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.
A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.
Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.
A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.
Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.
Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.
All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.
Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.
The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.
In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.
Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.
At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.
The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.
Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.
The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.
A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.
All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.
