The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
Не удалось получить факт.
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.
The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.
The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.
In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.
Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.
Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.
Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.
Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.
Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.
There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
Не удалось получить факт.
A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.
In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i
Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.
Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.
Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.
The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.
Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.
The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.
Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.
The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.
The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).
Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.
The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.
In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.
Cat's urine glows under a black light.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.
The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).
Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.
The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.
The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.
Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.
In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.
Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.
Не удалось получить факт.
Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.
The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.
Не удалось получить факт.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.
Milk can give some cats diarrhea.
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.
People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.
Не удалось получить факт.
The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.
A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.
Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.
Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.
A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.
Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.
In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.
Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).
A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.
In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i
A form of AIDS exists in cats.
A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
Milk can give some cats diarrhea.
A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.
A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints
Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.
The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.
A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.
The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.
A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.
Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.
Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.
Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.
Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.
The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.
The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.
Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.
In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.
Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.
Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.
Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.
Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.
In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.
Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.
Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""
A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.
When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.
Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more
Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.
Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.
A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.
In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.
